TITLE: Introduction to Python — Module 1 (Short Version)

---

[HOOK — 0:00]

Hey! Welcome to Module 1 of Python.
If you have never written a single line of code before, don't worry.
In the next few minutes, you will know what Python is, why it is everywhere, how to install it, and you will even run your first program.
Let's go.

---

[SECTION 1 — What is Python?]

Python is a programming language.
A programming language is just a way to give instructions to a computer.
You speak English to people. You speak Python to computers. Simple.

It was created by Guido van Rossum in 1991.
Fun fact — it is NOT named after the snake. It is named after a British comedy show, Monty Python.

Why do people love Python?
One — it reads like English.
Two — it is short. What takes 10 lines in other languages takes 2 lines here.
Three — it is free.
Four — a huge community. Help is one Google search away.

---

[SECTION 2 — Where is Python used?]

Python is everywhere.

Websites — Instagram, YouTube, Spotify, Reddit, Dropbox. All use Python.
Data Science — cleaning data, making charts, finding patterns.
Artificial Intelligence — ChatGPT, self-driving cars, face recognition. All Python.
Automation — rename 500 files, send 100 emails, fill Excel sheets, all with a small script.
And yes, even games.

In short: Python can do almost anything.

---

[SECTION 3 — Install Python]

Go to python.org/downloads and download the latest version.

Windows users — very important — tick the box "Add Python to PATH" during install. Do not skip this.
Mac and Linux users — you probably already have Python. Just open your terminal.

To check if it worked, open the terminal or command prompt and type:
  python --version
or
  python3 --version

If you see a version number, you are ready.

---

[SECTION 4 — Pick an IDE]

An IDE is just the app where you write code. Like Microsoft Word, but for programming.

Three popular choices:
VS Code — free, light, perfect for beginners. My top pick.
PyCharm — powerful, built only for Python.
Jupyter Notebook — best for data science and experimenting.

If you are new, just go with VS Code. Install the Python extension from Microsoft, and you are done.

---

[SECTION 5 — The REPL]

Open your terminal and type python (or python3).
You will see three arrows: >>>
That is the REPL. It is Python waiting for your command. Like a calculator on steroids.

Try this:
  2 + 2
  print("Hello")

The computer answers right away. Great for quick tests.
To exit, just type exit().

---

[SECTION 6 — Your First Program]

Tradition says your first program should print "Hello, World!"
Let's do it.

Open VS Code. Create a new file. Name it hello.py.
The .py part is important — that tells the computer it is a Python file.

Inside, type one line:
  print("Hello, World!")

Save it. Hit the Play button, or open a terminal and type:
  python hello.py

And boom — Hello, World! on your screen.

You just wrote your first Python program.

---

[SECTION 7 — How .py files work]

When you run a .py file:
Python reads it top to bottom.
Converts it into something the computer understands.
Runs it.
You see the output.

That's it. You don't need to worry about the deep stuff yet.

Two quick rules:
Do not use spaces in file names. Use hello_world.py, not hello world.py.
Do not start the name with a number.

---

[RECAP]

Quick recap of Module 1:
You know what Python is.
You know where it is used.
You installed it.
You set up an IDE.
You used the REPL.
You wrote your first program.

That is a huge first step.
    
---

[NEXT + CTA]

In Module 2, we talk about variables and data types — how to store numbers, text, and true-false values in Python.

If this helped, hit like, subscribe, and I will see you in the next one.
Happy coding!

---

[END]
